DART 450, Winter 2018
Midterm
Kathleen Capiral

Distraction

The internet can be your friend or it can be your enemy. It is the epitome of distraction and in this case, the user plays as a character and can navigate on a platform-based world. The distractions are viewed as overwhelming advertisement boards that are continuously in the character’s face. At each distraction, the user may interact with it and essentially, be distracted. Personally, the internet has always been a big part of my life because as a child and I grew up liking even to this day, 1990 animes such as Sailormoon and videogames from the Nintendo universe. It has impacted me even to this day where I use the internet mainly to play online games and watch anime. The webpage is also a contribution to the idea of “internet ugly” because although I didn’t know it was an actual concept, the internet ugly was something I was very familiar with and even integrated in my online persona.

The creation of this platform game webpage required the .keydown event when the document gets loaded so that the user can move left, right, up and spacebar to interact. Each interaction required specific coordinates on the webpage so I had to find the value using a variable called characterPos and printing out the positions. The coordinates were used to find the range in which the character may interact and in each interaction, I executed a unique action. When the character is within the interaction range, an interactive text would appear, instructing the user on what to do. I did this by using if statements per interaction and setting the instruction text. There are six interaction events in order from left to right. The Mario block used the randomizerChar( ) and a CHAR_COLLECTION constant which stored an array of character gifs. I used Math.random to generate the characters randomly when the user is within the interaction range. The doggo interaction uses the loadDoggos( ) and within the function, a setInterval( ) to generate randomly placed images of dogs using Math.random. The Youtube, 9gag and Facebook interaction each have their own constant which stores their URL and in the doInteraction( ), I used a switch statement to open the URL with window.open( ). Lastly, when the webpage loads, a background music plays but the user can change the music by interacting with Spotify. It does this by pausing the audio, changing the audio source to another background music and then playing it.
